README.md, before:

# HTTP Signatures

This crate is used to create and verify HTTP Signatures, defined [here](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-cavage-http-signatures-09). It has support for Hyper, Rocket, and Reqwest types. In the future, I might also support Iron middleware for verification.

[crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/http-signatures) [docs.rs](https://docs.rs/http-signatures/)

### Running the examples
Since this crate is built to modularly require dependencies, running the examples is not as straightforward as for other projects. To run `hyper_server` and `hyper_client`, the proper commands are `cargo run --example hyper_server --features use_hyper` and `cargo run --example hyper_client --features use_hyper`. The hyper examples are configured to talk to eachother by default. The server runs on port 3000, and the client POSTs on port 3000. The rocket server (`cargo run --example rocket --features use_rocket`) runs on port 8000, and the reqwest client (`cargo run --example reqwest --features use_reqwest`) GETs on port 8000.

### Usage
#### With Hyper
Add this to your `Cargo.toml`
```toml
[dependencies.http-signatures]
version = "0.1"
features = ["use_hyper"]
```
##### Client
Use it when building a request as follows.
```rust
let key_id = "some-username-or-something";
let private_key = File::open("test/assets/private.der").unwrap();

let mut core = Core::new().unwrap();
let client = Client::new(&core.handle());

let json = r#"{"library":"hyper"}"#;
let mut req = Request::new(Method::Post, "http://localhost:3000".parse().unwrap());
req.headers_mut().set(ContentType::json());
req.headers_mut().set(ContentLength(json.len() as u64));
req.set_body(json);

// Add the HTTP Signature
req.with_http_signature(
    key_id.into(),
    private_key,
    SignatureAlgorithm::RSA(ShaSize::FiveTwelve),
).unwrap();

let post = client.request(req).and_then(|res| {
    println!("POST: {}", res.status());

    res.body().concat2()
});

core.run(post).unwrap();
```
##### Server
This is a very basic example server outline that should give you a general idea of how to set up a Hyper server that verifies HTTP Signatures. This is not meant to be code that actually works.
```rust
#[derive(Clone)]
struct MyKeyGetter {
    key: Vec<u8>,
}

impl MyKeyGetter {
    fn new(filename: &str) -> Result<Self, ..> {
        let mut key = Vec::new();
        std::fs::File::open(filename)
            .map_err(|_| ..)?
            .read_to_end(&mut key)
            .map_err(|_| ..)?;

        Ok(MyKeyGetter { key })
    }
}

impl GetKey for MyKeyGetter {
    type Key = Cursor<Vec<u8>>;
    type Error = ..;

    fn get_key(self, _key_id: &str) -> Result<Self::Key, ..> {
        Ok(Cursor::new(self.key.clone()))
    }
}

struct HelloWorld {
    key_getter: MyKeyGetter,
}

impl HelloWorld {
    fn new(filename: &str) -> Result<Self, ..> {
        Ok(HelloWorld { key_getter: MyKeyGetter::new(filename)? })
    }
}

const PHRASE: &'static str = "Hewwo, Mr. Obama???";

impl Service for HelloWorld {
    ...

    fn call(&self, req: Request) -> Self::Future {
        let verified = req.verify_authorization_header(self.key_getter.clone())
            .map_err(|_| hyper::Error::Header);

        Box::new(verified.into_future().and_then(|_| {
            println!("Succesfully verified request!");
            Ok(
                Response::new()
                    .with_header(ContentLength(PHRASE.len() as u64))
                    .with_body(PHRASE),
            )
        }))
    }
}

fn main() {
    let addr = "127.0.0.1:3000".parse().unwrap();
    let server = Http::new()
        .bind(&addr, || {
            Ok(HelloWorld::new("test/assets/public.der").unwrap())
        })
        .unwrap();
    server.run().unwrap();
}
```
#### With Reqwest
Add this to your `Cargo.toml`
```toml
[dependencies.http-signatures]
version = "0.1"
features = ["use_reqwest"]
```
In your code, use it when building a request as follows.

```rust
let key_id = "some-username-or-something".into();
let private_key = File::open("test/assets/private.der").unwrap();

let client = Client::new();
let mut req = client
    .post("http://localhost:3000")
    .body("Some Body")
    .build()
    .unwrap();

req.with_http_signature(
    key_id,
    private_key,
    SignatureAlgorithm::RSA(ShaSize::FiveTwelve),
).unwrap();

client.execute(req).unwrap();
```
#### With Rocket
Add this to your `Cargo.toml`
```toml
[dependencies.http-signatures]
version = "0.1"
features = ["use_rocket"]
```
In your code, use it in a route like so
```rust
#[derive(Clone)]
struct MyKeyGetter {
    key: Vec<u8>,
}

impl MyKeyGetter {
    fn new(filename: &str) -> Result<Self, Error> {
        let mut key = Vec::new();
        std::fs::File::open(filename)
            .map_err(|_| ..)?
            .read_to_end(&mut key)
            .map_err(|_| ..)?;

        Ok(MyKeyGetter { key })
    }
}

impl GetKey for MyKeyGetter {
    type Key = Cursor<Vec<u8>>;
    type Error = ..;

    fn get_key(self, _key_id: &str) -> Result<Self::Key, Self::Error> {
        Ok(Cursor::new(self.key.clone()))
    }
}

struct Verified;

impl<'a, 'r> FromRequest<'a, 'r> for Verified {
    type Error = ();

    fn from_request(request: &'a Request<'r>) -> Outcome<Verified, ()> {
        let res = request
            .guard::<State<MyKeyGetter>>()
            .succeeded()
            .ok_or(())
            .and_then(|key_getter| {
                request
                    .verify_authorization_header(key_getter.clone())
                    .map_err(|_| ..)?;

                Ok(Verified)
            });

        match res {
            Ok(verified) => Success(verified),
            Err(fail) => Failure((Status::Forbidden, fail)),
        }
    }
}

#[get("/")]
fn index(_verified: Verified) -> &'static str {
    "Successfully verified request"
}

fn main() {
    let key_getter = MyKeyGetter::new("test/assets/public.der").unwrap();

    rocket::ignite()
        .mount("/", routes![index])
        .manage(key_getter)
        .launch();
}
```

### Testing
Since examples could have tests, they get compiled during a `cargo test`. Be sure to run `cargo test --all-features`.

### Contributing
Please be aware that all code contributed to this project will be licensed under the GPL version 3.

### License
HTTP Signatures is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

HTTP Signatures is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details. This file is part of HTTP Signatures

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with HTTP Signatures If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

Commit message:

Add Signature Header, Rename things
Previously, this library only worked with the Authorization
HTTP Header, now there are options for working with the
Signature HTTP Header as well. Changes have been made in all
implementations, and the Hyper examples have been modified to
use the new Signature header instead of the Authorization
header.

README.md, after:

# HTTP Signatures

This crate is used to create and verify HTTP Signatures, defined [here](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-cavage-http-signatures-09). It has support for Hyper, Rocket, and Reqwest types. In the future, I might also support Iron middleware for verification.

[crates.io](https://crates.io/crates/http-signatures) [docs.rs](https://docs.rs/http-signatures/)

### Running the examples
Since this crate is built to modularly require dependencies, running the examples is not as straightforward as for other projects.  To run `hyper_server` and `hyper_client`, the proper commands are
```bash
cargo run --example hyper_server --features use_hyper
```
and
```bash
cargo run --example hyper_client --features use_hyper
```
The hyper examples are configured to talk to eachother by default. The server runs on port 3000, and the client POSTs on port 3000. They also use the `Signature` header to sign and verify the request.
The rocket server
```bash
cargo run --example rocket --features use_rocket
```
runs on port 8000, and the reqwest client 
```bash
cargo run --example reqwest --features use_reqwest
```
GETs on port 8000. These examples use the `Authorization` header to sign and verify the request.

### Usage
#### With Hyper
Add this to your `Cargo.toml`
```toml
[dependencies.http-signatures]
version = "0.1"
features = ["use_hyper"]
```
##### Client
Use it when building a request as follows.
```rust
let key_id = "some-username-or-something";
let private_key = File::open("test/assets/private.der").unwrap();

let mut core = Core::new().unwrap();
let client = Client::new(&core.handle());

let json = r#"{"library":"hyper"}"#;
let mut req = Request::new(Method::Post, "http://localhost:3000".parse().unwrap());
req.headers_mut().set(ContentType::json());
req.headers_mut().set(ContentLength(json.len() as u64));
req.set_body(json);

// Add the HTTP Signature
req.with_authorization_header(
    key_id.into(),
    private_key,
    SignatureAlgorithm::RSA(ShaSize::FiveTwelve),
).unwrap();

let post = client.request(req).and_then(|res| {
    println!("POST: {}", res.status());

    res.body().concat2()
});

core.run(post).unwrap();
```
##### Server
This is a very basic example server outline that should give you a general idea of how to set up a Hyper server that verifies HTTP Signatures. This is not meant to be code that actually works.
```rust
#[derive(Clone)]
struct MyKeyGetter {
    key: Vec<u8>,
}

impl MyKeyGetter {
    fn new(filename: &str) -> Result<Self, ..> {
        let mut key = Vec::new();
        std::fs::File::open(filename)
            .map_err(|_| ..)?
            .read_to_end(&mut key)
            .map_err(|_| ..)?;

        Ok(MyKeyGetter { key })
    }
}

impl GetKey for MyKeyGetter {
    type Key = Cursor<Vec<u8>>;
    type Error = ..;

    fn get_key(self, _key_id: &str) -> Result<Self::Key, ..> {
        Ok(Cursor::new(self.key.clone()))
    }
}

struct HelloWorld {
    key_getter: MyKeyGetter,
}

impl HelloWorld {
    fn new(filename: &str) -> Result<Self, ..> {
        Ok(HelloWorld { key_getter: MyKeyGetter::new(filename)? })
    }
}

const PHRASE: &'static str = "Hewwo, Mr. Obama???";

impl Service for HelloWorld {
    ...

    fn call(&self, req: Request) -> Self::Future {
        let verified = req.verify_authorization_header(self.key_getter.clone())
            .map_err(|_| hyper::Error::Header);

        Box::new(verified.into_future().and_then(|_| {
            println!("Succesfully verified request!");
            Ok(
                Response::new()
                    .with_header(ContentLength(PHRASE.len() as u64))
                    .with_body(PHRASE),
            )
        }))
    }
}

fn main() {
    let addr = "127.0.0.1:3000".parse().unwrap();
    let server = Http::new()
        .bind(&addr, || {
            Ok(HelloWorld::new("test/assets/public.der").unwrap())
        })
        .unwrap();
    server.run().unwrap();
}
```
#### With Reqwest
Add this to your `Cargo.toml`
```toml
[dependencies.http-signatures]
version = "0.1"
features = ["use_reqwest"]
```
In your code, use it when building a request as follows.

```rust
let key_id = "some-username-or-something".into();
let private_key = File::open("test/assets/private.der").unwrap();

let client = Client::new();
let mut req = client
    .post("http://localhost:3000")
    .body("Some Body")
    .build()
    .unwrap();

req.with_authorization_header(
    key_id,
    private_key,
    SignatureAlgorithm::RSA(ShaSize::FiveTwelve),
).unwrap();

client.execute(req).unwrap();
```
#### With Rocket
Add this to your `Cargo.toml`
```toml
[dependencies.http-signatures]
version = "0.1"
features = ["use_rocket"]
```
In your code, use it in a route like so
```rust
#[derive(Clone)]
struct MyKeyGetter {
    key: Vec<u8>,
}

impl MyKeyGetter {
    fn new(filename: &str) -> Result<Self, Error> {
        let mut key = Vec::new();
        std::fs::File::open(filename)
            .map_err(|_| ..)?
            .read_to_end(&mut key)
            .map_err(|_| ..)?;

        Ok(MyKeyGetter { key })
    }
}

impl GetKey for MyKeyGetter {
    type Key = Cursor<Vec<u8>>;
    type Error = ..;

    fn get_key(self, _key_id: &str) -> Result<Self::Key, Self::Error> {
        Ok(Cursor::new(self.key.clone()))
    }
}

struct Verified;

impl<'a, 'r> FromRequest<'a, 'r> for Verified {
    type Error = ();

    fn from_request(request: &'a Request<'r>) -> Outcome<Verified, ()> {
        let res = request
            .guard::<State<MyKeyGetter>>()
            .succeeded()
            .ok_or(())
            .and_then(|key_getter| {
                request
                    .verify_authorization_header(key_getter.clone())
                    .map_err(|_| ..)?;

                Ok(Verified)
            });

        match res {
            Ok(verified) => Success(verified),
            Err(fail) => Failure((Status::Forbidden, fail)),
        }
    }
}

#[get("/")]
fn index(_verified: Verified) -> &'static str {
    "Successfully verified request"
}

fn main() {
    let key_getter = MyKeyGetter::new("test/assets/public.der").unwrap();

    rocket::ignite()
        .mount("/", routes![index])
        .manage(key_getter)
        .launch();
}
```

### Testing
Since examples could have tests, they get compiled during a `cargo test`. Be sure to run `cargo test --all-features`.

### Contributing
Please be aware that all code contributed to this project will be licensed under the GPL version 3.

### License
HTTP Signatures is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

HTTP Signatures is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details. This file is part of HTTP Signatures

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with HTTP Signatures If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.
